>> Steve Kinney: So like we'll have
something along these lines here.
It will be fun if you mess up because
what will happen is either your
test suite will take longer than
you think it normally should or
you can really make noce unhappy and get
some nice like dumps of the stack, right?
It's not pretty, right?
And so, that's a thing.
Hence, we're gonna have some unit tests.
So if things change under us,
we kind of know.
And then some of this is for instance,
okay, if we see white space,
we don't care about white space.
Right, well, we will write this
code together in a second.
It's kind of the preview.
But if we see a number, well,
yeah, we do need that, right?
We want the number.
We put that into our token bag,
and we move along.
So we're gonna switch over right,
I'm going to jump into the repo.
I'm going to write a little bit.
And then I'm going to pass it off
to you to write a little bit, and
then we'll do it together.
And it'll be a grand old time.
So this is I'll give you a kind
of a tour of the repo as well.
We've got most of the code is
in the source directory, right?
It's there's I've done the like, require
statements, but it's a bunch of no op
functions in here currently, and
a series of skipped tests, right?
And so we'll start turning those on as we
go through the day starting to get a few
things working.
So right now I'm in this tokenize,
which is what we're going to kind
of call our lexical analysis.
We have some helpers here and let's just
like they're pretty straightforward I
mean, they do effectively
what they say on the tin.
But let's go ahead and take a look.
And so I've got some basic tiny little
bit of regx to do some of the very simple
stuff like figuring out if
something is a letter, white space,
this will take care of tabs as well as
spaces and everything on those lines.
Numbers, we are actually
gonna use the operators.
This is just some helpers to make
our code a little more clear.
Seeing this regx all over
place with the test on it,
like makes an already complicated
piece of code look far worse, right?
Giving yourself good
abstractions sometimes is a sign
that you love yourself.
The same thing of this will be easier for
future me to read than the other side
of this, so on and so forth, right?
So we're gonna have these are the helpers
that we're gonna use for the lesson,
we're gonna have some other helpers
through the course of the day.
But I greatly encourage you to make
helpers early and often, right?
Sometimes we'll use a little
less than I would normally use,
cuz I wanna make stuff clear.
Righ, and it's like what is
this magical helper right?
But i think about a lot of like even when
we create the like kind of objects that
are the data structures for
the information about a given token.
Or piece of, I'm sorry,
syntax tree, right?
I might normally use a function
to actually create that so
I know I'm consistently
getting the right properties.
I don't actually worry about having
to mistype a given constant name or
something along those lines, right?
And so we'll do a little less of
that than I would normally do so
it's not so abstract that it
seems like black magic but
we will kind of use it where it
doesn't take away from the clarity.
But I encourage you to probably go ever
farther than I will go cuz I scaled it
back a little bit than
what I would normally do.
So we have those.
But tokenize is where we're going to kind
of get started and we saw a little bit
before which is tokenize is going to take
that input string, and also just like,
this is something that I would like,
I'm going to use JavaScript today,
I would probably use something
like TypeScript normally, right?
But didn't want to add the, hey,
we're gonna do a bunch of recursion.
And nested while loops.
Let's also as strong types in there,
right?
But like just basically trying
to keep your sanity and
stuff along those lines
is super helpful usually.
So we know that we need to get this set
of tokens that we're gonna keep track of.
And we know that we're going
to start a cursor, right?
You could slice things off of the string
and do a whole bunch of stuff like that.
I've done that as well.
I have found that like, as I've done
some of the kind of real world ones,
the least amount of headache by just
keeping an index of where I am.
Cuz that's easy.
There are cases where you might
wanna move back sometimes, right?
Our scheme language is
pretty straightforward and
you won't need to do too much of that.
But there absolutely are cases where you
might want to look ahead, or look behind.
We'll also have some utilities that like
just make it a little more clear, right?
Some things instead of like,
because I don't know about you.
But I can never remember what
array shift and array unshift do.
They I just know they do the opposite
of what they think they do,
but then I get all confused.
So I made some helpers that will use for
that kind of stuff too.
So then we'll do while cursor
is less than the input link.
So like,
when we get to the end of the string,
that's how we know we're done tokenizing.
And this is obviously, you're in
charge of kind of making sure that you
are iterating that cursor because if you
don't, it's gonna be an infinite loop.
[LAUGH] So and there's some tricks like,
it wasn't appropriate for
this language, but a trick that I'll
use a lot of times is for a for loop,
you don't have to give it every argument.
So you could do something for
cursor is less than input length.
>> Steve Kinney: And then.
>> Steve Kinney: Like that, and so you
don't have that initial setup in there.
And you can control it like that as well.
I use this in the handlebars syntax,
it just didn't work for
what we're doing today.
So I have this cursor, and at the end of
the day, when everything is said and done,
we are gonna return that array of tokens.
So now what we really
need to do is kind of all
the happiness lives in here at this point.
So I'm gonna start us with
the kinda simplest one.
Let me take a look at the tests,
let's get some of those up and running.
So, for instance,
this is kind of the like,
does my test suite work kind of test,
right?
Is it giving me array at all like these
are those tests like I am a guilty of
the right expect true to be true to make
sure I've even configured just right.
These are the tests that I would likely
like delete after I had more tests right?
Cuz they're not adding a ton of value,
but they are pretty good for now.
So let's get that going.
And we'll start with our
let's make sure that works.
>> Steve Kinney: And so
I'm going to do MPM test.
And then one trick you can do with
just is if you just type in like any
characters that are in the name of
the test will basically do a regx max.
Because like i don't need to go evaluate
a bunch of files I've skipped testing them
right now.
Right, so we know that this is tokenized
test like it's a MPM test tokenize right.
And it will kind of look and check it out.
Cool, sweet.
So I got a problem,
which is I don't know how to type.
So we'll solve that
there's no brackets here.
>> Steve Kinney: Sweet, and so
we've got our first passing test.
Let's go get ourselves a failing test.
So the first one is should be able to
tokenize a pair of parentheses, man,
if we're writing a list, we should be
able to tokenize a pair of parentheses,
which is if we give it the input
string of spoiler alert,
a pair of parentheses, we ought to
be able to get those out, right?
Pretty simple.
Nothing particularly special.
So how would that look?
One of the things that I will
likely do is I'm going to,
I could call this each time input and I
use the square brackets cursor like this.
Like
>> Steve Kinney: But
you can see how I'm already
messing up as it is, right?
I don't want to do that.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just
a store that character constant.
Because I'm going to be checking for
parentheses and be checking for numbers.
I'm going to be checking the letters.
I don't want to type this over again.
So we'll do that.
And then we've got that
if parentheses helper,
which is basically able to check for
opening and closing parentheses,
so we'll do that if is
parentheses is our parentheses.
I went back and forth on whether
I was gonna pluralize or not.
All right, if that's the case,
we go into our tokens.
We push it on with some metadata, right?
So the type is gonna be a parenthesis.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, and then,
the value will be whatever
character it was, right?
Cuz we're gonna need to know later is
it an opening and closing parenthesis.
That is data that we need.
Other stuff, we might not necessarily
care, right but in this case,
we do need to know which way
the smiley face is pointing.
Once we've done this, we can go ahead and
just say cursor plus plus because if we do
not iterate that cursor,
you will be waiting a very long time.
And then what i'm going to do is continue.
You end up like using like old school
javascript stuff that you forgot was in
the language.
Continue allows you to just
like break out a loop and
go to the next turn of the loop,
we've iterated cursor ourselves.
This will kick it off because like
what will happen is like we're
basically gonna let it.
If this isn't the case we're gonna have
another conditional checking for things so
on and so forth.
Awesome, and we'll go check it out.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
we have two passing tests.
Another one I will show you,
just to show your the differences,
we don't care about white space.
White space is there to show us that
we can move on to a different token.
So in that case we need
to iterate the cursor.
But we don't need to store it anywhere.
So we can say if iswhitespace and
you can already see like how like this
will be a lot gnarlier if I didn't give
myself the helpers iswhitespace character
really just iterate that cursor.
>> Steve Kinney: And continue along right?
So go ahead, turn that one on.
We'll verify that it works.
So this one is got a whitespace is kind
of hard to see because it's invisible.
We should get back just the array of
tokens of all it has is whitespace.
So all those tokens should
be completely ignored.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
here we've got exercise one.
We've got digits.
Now in an implementation detail that
we decided upon, by we, I mean I,
was that we are actually gonna
store them as JavaScript numbers.
Right so they're in a string right now.
So it will be the string two,
the string three.
So you're on the hook for
numbers for parts, ending them, or
putting a little plus if
you want to be fancy and
just use the fact that JavaScript's
weird to make your life easier.
Either one of those is fine with me.
So want to go ahead, if we get input one,
two to go ahead and get some numbers.
We also want to be able to like
collect some letters as well.